Feature/issues 8306 (#17314)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/config.adoc

TIP: Use `@io.smallrye.config.ConfigMapping` annotation to group multiple configurations in a single interface. Please,
check the https://smallrye.io/docs/smallrye-config/main/mapping/mapping.html[Config Mappings] documentation.

> == defaultValue behavior
> In contrast to a 'required' configuration property, if it is affected by a `defaultValue` attribute the application will
> not fail by throwing a `javax.enterprise.inject.spi.DeploymentException` and the value of `defaultValue` will be
> automatically assigned to targeted variable. The `defaultValue` value expressed as a `String` will be directly assigned
> for a same `Type` variable, unless it is not of this type, this will be converted to the targeted variable type.
> This conversion mechanism several Built-in Converters already exist for primitives and boxed primitives, examples:
> 
> * Primitives: boolean, byte, short ...
> * Boxed primitives: java.lang.Boolean, java.lang.Byte, java.lang.short ...
> * Optional containers: java.lang.OptionalInt, java.lang.OptionalLong, java.lang.OptionalDouble ...
> * Quarkus: io.quarkus.runtime.configuration.Duration, io.quarkus.runtime.configuration.INetAddressConverter ...
> 
> As you might expect, these converters are `org.eclipse.microprofile.config.spi.Converter` implementations. It means
> complying with the Microprofile or custom implementation providers expression rules, like:
> 
> * Boolean values will be `true` in cases "true", "1", "YES", "Y" "ON". Otherwise, value will be interpreted as false
> * For float and double values the fractional digits must be separated by a dot `.`
> 
> But a combination of `OptionalInt` and `defaultValue` attribute will work too like an `Optional<Integer>`, the defined
> `defaultValue` will still be affected. However, beware of this application.property extract case:

Reviewer: I like the idea of documenting this, but I think that the wording and syntax is a bit rough. Here's a try at cleaning it up:

```suggestion
== Default values
If a property is associated with a default value (by way of the `defaultValue` attribute), and no configuration value is supplied for the property, then rather than throwing a `javax.enterprise.inject.spi.DeploymentException`, the default value will be used.
The `defaultValue` value is expressed as a `String`, and uses the same conversion mechanism used to process configuration values.
Several Built-in Converters already exist for primitives, boxed primitives, and other classes; for example:

* Primitives: `boolean`, `byte`, `short`, etc.
* Boxed primitives: `java.lang.Boolean`, `java.lang.Byte`, `java.lang.Short`, etc.
* Optional containers: `java.util.Optional`, `java.util.OptionalInt`, `java.util.OptionalLong`, and `java.util.OptionalDouble`
* Java `enum` types
* JSR 310 `java.time.Duration`
* JDK networking `java.net.SocketAddress`, `java.net.InetAddress`, etc.

As you might expect, these converters are `org.eclipse.microprofile.config.spi.Converter` implementations. Therefore these converters comply with the Microprofile or custom implementation providers expression rules, like:

* Boolean values will be `true` in cases "true", "1", "YES", "Y" "ON". Otherwise, value will be interpreted as false
* For float and double values the fractional digits must be separated by a dot `.`

Note that when a combination of `Optional*` types and the `defaultValue` attribute are used, the defined `defaultValue` will still be used and if no value is given for the property, the `Optional*` will be present and populated with the converted default value. However, when the property is explicitly empty, the default value is not used and the `Optional` will be empty. Consider this example:
```

And the following example is using a property `greeting.message`  which is *not* `Optional`, making the whole thing a bit confusing.  I'll assume it was meant to refer to `greeting.name` which is `Optional` in the example above.

> [source,properties]
> ----
> # missing value
> greeting.message =
> ----
> 
> If the property exists but has no value, this will result to a `java.util.NoSuchElementException: SRCFG02004:
> Required property greeting.message not found` on startup and the default value, will not be assigned
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source,properties]
----
# missing value, optional property
greeting.name =
----

In this case, since `greeting.name` was configured to be `Optional*` up above, the corresponding property value will be an empty `Optional` and execution will continue normally.  This would be the case even if there was a default value configured: the default value is *not* used if the property is explicitly cleared in the configuration.

On the other hand, this example:

[source,properties]
----
# missing value, non-optional
greeting.suffix =
----

...will result to a `java.util.NoSuchElementException: SRCFG02004:
Required property greeting.message not found` on startup and the default value will not be assigned.

```

* For float and double values the fractional digits must be separated by a dot `.`

Note that when a combination of `Optional*` types and the `defaultValue` attribute are used, the defined `defaultValue` will still be used and if no value is given for the property, the `Optional*` will be present and populated with the converted default value. However, when the property is explicitly empty, the default value is not used and the `Optional` will be empty. Consider this example:

[source,properties]
----
# missing value, optional property
greeting.name =
----

In this case, since `greeting.name` was configured to be `Optional*` up above, the corresponding property value will be an empty `Optional` and execution will continue normally.  This would be the case even if there was a default value configured: the default value is *not* used if the property is explicitly cleared in the configuration.

On the other hand, this example:

[source,properties]
----
# missing value, non-optional
greeting.suffix =
----

...will result to a `java.util.NoSuchElementException: SRCFG02004:
Required property greeting.message not found` on startup and the default value will not be assigned.

> Below a Quarkus' converter example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below is an example of a Quarkus-supplied converter:
```
